[MB-13824] Create an ADR for Move History Templates Event Name (#210)
transcom/mymove-docs: docs/adrs/0074-move-history-details-refactor.md

---
title: '0074 Use changed values to match move events to their template'
---

# *Use changed values to match move events to their template*

**🔒 User Story:** *[MB-11214](https://dp3.atlassian.net/browse/MB-12606)*

*Currently, move history templates are matched based on action, event name, and table name. This expects that each action, event and table combination. However there are some move history events that share the same values for all three and there isn't a way to specify which template to use. The event will then match to whichever template shows up first in the index file.*

## Proposal: Clean up the current Template Manager

> To be able to handle changed values. We will first need to refactor the existing [Template Manager](https://github.com/transcom/mymove/blob/master/src/constants/MoveHistory/TemplateManager.js). We will need the template manager to be able to three things:

Reviewer: (Thought/suggestion): It could be worthwhile to include a link to the version of the file at the time of writing this file as well. Maybe something like along the lines of
```suggestion
To be able to handle changed values. We will first need to refactor the existing Template Manager[[current](https://github.com/transcom/mymove/blob/master/src/constants/MoveHistory/TemplateManager.js) | [time of writing](https://github.com/transcom/mymove/blob/bc0369eec482fca3d132a9702712312bb224f04d/src/constants/MoveHistory/TemplateManager.js)]. We will need the template manager to be able to three things:
```

> To be able to handle changed values. We will first need to refactor the existing [Template Manager](https://github.com/transcom/mymove/blob/master/src/constants/MoveHistory/TemplateManager.js). We will need the template manager to be able to three things:

Reviewer 2: **Suggestion:** This phrase doesn't make sense "to be able to three things:".

> 1. [Match templates to the an event by action, event,  and table name.](#1-match-templates-to-the-an-event-by-action-event-and-table-name)

Reviewer 2: **suggestion:** The "the" can be removed.

2. [Match template to an event using the change values.](#2-match-template-to-an-event-using-the-change-values)
3. [Determine if an event, needs to matched using changed values in addition matching with action, event, and table name.](#3-determine-if-an-event-needs-to-matched-using-changed-values-in-addition-matching-with-action-event-and-table-name)

### 1. Match templates to the an event by action, event, and table name.
The current template manager already does this. We can make this its own function that can be reused.
```js
   //before
    return (
      propertiesMatch(eventType.action, other?.action) &&
      propertiesMatch(eventType.eventName, other?.eventName) &&
      propertiesMatch(eventType.tableName, other?.tableName)
    );

    // after
    function matchByDefaults(template, entry) {
    return (
      propertiesMatch(template.action, entry?.action) &&
      propertiesMatch(template.eventName, entry?.eventName) &&
      propertiesMatch(template.tableName, entry?.tableName)
    );
  }
  ;

```

> ### 2. Match template to an event using the change values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Match template to an event using the changed values.
```

To match the history record entry to the correct template, we will take the history record entry's changed value object and compare the keys of that object to the expected keys for the template.
```js
  function matchByChangedValues(template, entry) {
    const entryChangedValues = Object.keys(entry.changedValues);
    const templateChangedValues = template.getChangedValues();
    return (
      templateChangedValues.length === entryChangedValues.length &&
      templateChangedValues.every((key) => entryChangedValues.indexOf(key))
    );
  }
```
### 3. Determine if an event needs to be matched using changed values in addition matching with action, event, and table name.

> We will only match a template using `changedValues` if a move template includes a list of changed values. Otherwise, we will only use action, event and table name to match a template. With this check, existing move templates will not need to be updated to list their `changedValues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will only match a template using `changedValues` if a move template includes a list of changed values. Otherwise, we will only use action, event and table name to match a template. With this check, existing move templates will not need to be updated to list their `changedValues`.
```

```js
    if (typeof eventType.getChangedValues !== 'function') {
      return matchByDefaults(eventType, other);
    }
    else{
    return matchByDefaults(eventType, other) && matchByChangedValues(eventType, other);
    }
  ;
```

## Changes to event templates

> Existing event templates will not be affected by changes to Template Manager. For templates what cannot be matched using out default matching settings, a new `getChangeValues` key can be added to the template object. It is an function that will return an array with the keys of the expected changed values. These changed values will be matched against the history record `changedValues`'s object keys in the template manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Existing event templates will not be affected by changes to Template Manager. For templates that cannot be matched using the default match settings, a new `getChangedValues` key can be added to the template object. This function that will return an array with the keys of the expected changed values. These changed values will be matched against the history record `changedValues`'s object keys in the template manager.
```

```js
export default {
  action: a.UPDATE,
  eventName: o.updateMTOShipment,
  tableName: t.moves,
  detailsType: d.PLAIN_TEXT,
  getEventNameDisplay: () => 'Updated move',
  // new optional getChangedValues key that returns an array with the expected change values keys
  getChangedValues: () => ['excess_weight_qualified_at'],
  getDetailsPlainText: () => {
    return 'Flagged for excess weight, total estimated weight > 90% weight allowance';
  },
};
```

## Considered Alternatives

* *Add a new changed values criterion for distinguishing between events when matching to event templates*
* *Refactor our details types and details components so that different data can be displayed uniquely within the same details type*
* *Do nothing*

## Decision Outcome

### Chosen Alternative: _Add a new changed values criterion for distinguishing between events when matching to event templates_

* `+` *It is the same approach used when Action and Table were added as matching criteria when Event Name was not sufficient*

> * `-` *It assumes that not no event will have the same action, event name, table name, and changed values. We may run into a case that meets this criteria and will have to come up with another metric in which to differentiate move events.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `-` *It assumes that no event will have the same action, event name, table name, and changed values. We may run into a case that meets this criteria and will have to come up with another metric in which to differentiate move events.*
```

*At present, move history templates are matched based on action, event name, and table name. This expects that each action, event, and table combination is unique. However, some move history events share the same values for all three and there isn't a way to specify which template to use.*

### Useful definition
> **Matching combination:** A move event's action, eventName, and tableName.

## Example of two move events with the same action, event, and table combination

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Approvals request</td>
    <td>Prime excess weight </td> 
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>

```json
{
  "action": "UPDATE",
  ...
  "changedValues": {
    "status": "APPROVALS REQUESTED"
  },
  ...
  "eventName": "updateMTOShipment",
  "tableName": "moves",
  "transactionId": 6627,
}
```

  </td>
    <td>

```json
{
  "action": "UPDATE",
  ...
  "changedValues": {
    "excess_weight_qualified_at": "2022-09-07T21:26:47"
  },
  ...
  "eventName": "updateMTOShipment",
  "tableName": "moves", 
  "transactionId": 6627,
}
```

  </td>
  </tr>
</table>

> **Note:**
> History record data has between abbreviated.

**Above there are two issues:**

> 1. The move events will match multiple templates

Reviewer 3: **suggestion**(non-blocking): you can probably remove these two lines since the following descriptions of the issues already have their own titles

### Scope of the issue
To find potential the scope of the issue of sharing matching combinations, the templateManager was edited to run the movement against all the templates instead of returning as soon as it found its first match. This change would make it so a template's test would fail if another template could also be a possible match.
```js
export default (historyRecord) => {
  // find all the templates that match
  const templates = allMoveHistoryEventTemplates.filter((eventType) => eventType.matches(historyRecord));
  // if the template array is length of 1 return that first value
  if (templates.length === 1) {
    return templates[0];
  }
  // else return undefined event
  return undefinedEvent;
};
```

> After running the test, we found all of our existing templates match 1:1. Upon, further inspection, it looks like we solved for matching combinations mostly by [sharing templates and using ternaries to return different values](https://github.com/transcom/mymove/blob/f236493f47279345a6d280382ab13738f621c59b/src/constants/MoveHistory/EventTemplates/updateMTOShipmentDeprecatePaymentRequest.js) based on `changedValues`.

Reviewer 3: yaaaaaaaaaaas
